feat(guides): transition to the new policies (#1749)
kumahq/kuma-website: app/_src/guides/transition-to-the-new-policies.md

Reviewer: can we add `Next steps` section at the end of the guide like in other guides? To point people to new policies docs or any other useful resources?

Author: updated

---
title: Transition to the new policies
---

{{site.mesh_product_name}} provides two set of policies to configure proxies. 
There are old [source/destination](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/general-notes-about-kuma-policies/) policies that didn't live up to expectations and
there are new [targetRef](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/targetref) policies that are designed to address the shortcomings of the old ones, 

> providing improved functionality and UX.

Author: I rephrased the intro, gave some credits to the s&d policies to sound less harsh :)

> In this guide, we're going to setup a demo with old policies and then perform a transition to the new policies.

Author: Agreed, let's use "migration" everywhere

    kubectl wait -n kuma-demo --for=condition=ready pod --selector=app=demo-app --timeout=90s
    ```

2.  Port-forward the service to the namespace on port 5000:

    ```sh
    kubectl port-forward svc/demo-app -n kuma-demo 5000:5000
    ```

3.  In a browser, go to [127.0.0.1:5000](http://127.0.0.1:5000) and increment the counter.

### Enable Mutual TLS and Traffic Permissions

```sh
echo 'apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  skipCreatingInitialPolicies: ["*"]
  mtls:
    enabledBackend: ca-1
    backends:
      - name: ca-1
        type: builtin' | kubectl apply -f-
```

```sh
echo 'apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: TrafficPermission
mesh: default
metadata:
  name: app-to-redis
spec:
  sources:
    - match:
        kuma.io/service: demo-app_kuma-demo_svc_5000
  destinations:
    - match:
        kuma.io/service: redis_kuma-demo_svc_6379' | kubectl apply -f -
```

### Deploy TrafficRoute

```sh
echo 'apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: TrafficRoute
mesh: default
metadata:
  name: route-all-default
spec:
  sources:
    - match:
        kuma.io/service: "*"
  destinations:
    - match:
        kuma.io/service: "*"
  conf:
    destination:

>       kuma.io/service: "*"' | kc apply -f-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      kuma.io/service: "*"' | kubectl apply -f-
```

spec:
  sources:
    - match:
        kuma.io/service: "*"
  destinations:
    - match:
        kuma.io/service: "*"
  conf:
    connectTimeout: 21s
    tcp: 
      idleTimeout: 22s
    http:
      idleTimeout: 22s
      requestTimeout: 23s
      streamIdleTimeout: 25s
      maxStreamDuration: 26s' | kubectl apply -f-
```

### Deploy CircuitBreaker

```sh
echo 'apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: CircuitBreaker
mesh: default
metadata:
  name: cb-global
spec:
  sources:
  - match:
      kuma.io/service: "*"
  destinations:
  - match:
      kuma.io/service: "*"
  conf:
    interval: 21s
    baseEjectionTime: 22s
    maxEjectionPercent: 23
    splitExternalAndLocalErrors: false
    thresholds:
      maxConnections: 24
      maxPendingRequests: 25
      maxRequests: 26
      maxRetries: 27
    detectors:
      totalErrors: 
        consecutive: 28
      gatewayErrors: 
        consecutive: 29
      localErrors: 
        consecutive: 30
      standardDeviation:
        requestVolume: 31
        minimumHosts: 32
        factor: 1.33
      failure:
        requestVolume: 34
        minimumHosts: 35
        threshold: 36' | kubectl apply -f-
```

## Transition to the new policies

> Each type of policy is migrated separately; for example, once we have completely finished with the Timeouts, 
> we will proceed to the next policy type, CircuitBreakers.

Author: > Well theoretically it doesn't have to be migrated separately right? We just make it so in this guide right? 

I meant this as an advantage of our approach, so you don't have to commit to use all new policies at once. Maybe should rephrase it like:
```suggestion
Each type of policy can be migrated separately; for example, once we have completely finished with the Timeouts, 
we will proceed to the next policy type, CircuitBreakers.
```

> Also would it make sense to state it explicitly that the order does not matter?

Yes, I'll mention here that TrafficRoute should be the last.

> we will proceed to the next policy type, CircuitBreakers.

Author: Also added:

> It's possible to migrate all policies at once, but small portions are preferable as they're easily reversible.

The generalized migration process roughly consists of 4 steps:

1. Create and deploy the replacement policies in [shadow mode](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/applying-policies/#applying-policies-in-shadow-mode). 
The corresponding new policy type can be found in [the table](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/introduction).
2. Review the list of changes that're going to be created by the replacement policy.
3. Remove `kuma.io/effect: shadow` label so that policy is applied in a normal mode.
4. Observe metrics, traces and logs. If something goes wrong change policy's mode back to shadow and return to the step 2.
If everything is fine then remove the old policies.

### TrafficPermission -> MeshTrafficPermission

1. Create a replacement policy for `app-to-redis` TrafficPermission and apply it with `kuma.io/effect: shadow` label:

>     ```sh

Reviewer: this example have white space issues and does not work after coppying it

Author: right, not sure why it rendered like that, but I think I found a workaround

    echo 'apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
    kind: MeshTrafficPermission
    metadata:
      namespace: {{site.mesh_namespace}}
      name: app-to-redis
      labels:
        kuma.io/mesh: default
        kuma.io/effect: shadow
    spec:
      targetRef:
        kind: MeshService
        name: redis_kuma-demo_svc_6379
      from:
        - targetRef:
            kind: MeshSubset
            tags: 
              kuma.io/service: demo-app_kuma-demo_svc_5000
          default:
            action: Allow' | kubectl apply -f -
    ```

2. Check the list of changes for `redis_kuma-demo_svc_6379` pod in Envoy configuration using `kumactl`, `jq` and `jd`:

    ```sh

>     kumactl inspect dataplane redis-8fcbfc795-twlst.kuma-demo --type=config --shadow --include=diff | jq '.diff' | jd -t patch2jd

Reviewer: can you separate output to different block, right now when you use copy button you will also copy output

    ```

    As we can see, the only difference is the policy name "MeshTrafficPermission" instead of "allow-all-default". 
    The list of principals looks similar. 

3. Remove the `kuma.io/effect: shadow` label:

    ```sh
    echo 'apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
    kind: MeshTrafficPermission
    metadata:
      namespace: {{site.mesh_namespace}}
      name: app-to-redis
      labels:
        kuma.io/mesh: default
    spec:
      targetRef:
        kind: MeshService
        name: redis_kuma-demo_svc_6379
      from:
        - targetRef:
            kind: MeshSubset
            tags: 
              kuma.io/service: demo-app_kuma-demo_svc_5000
          default:
            action: Allow' | kubectl apply -f -
    ```

    Although the old TrafficPermission and the new MeshTrafficPermission currently coexist, the new policy completely overrides the old one.

4. Observe the demo app behaves as expected. If everything goes well, we can safely remove TrafficPermission and conclude the transition.

### Timeout -> MeshTimeout

1. Create a replacement policy for `timeout-global` Timeout and apply it with `kuma.io/effect: shadow` label:

    ```sh

>     echo 'apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1

Reviewer: this also have whitespace issues

    kind: MeshTimeout
    metadata:
      namespace: {{site.mesh_namespace}}
      name: timeout-global
      labels:
        kuma.io/mesh: default
        kuma.io/effect: shadow
    spec:
      targetRef:
        kind: Mesh
      to:
      - targetRef:
          kind: Mesh
        default:
          connectionTimeout: 21s
          idleTimeout: 22s
          http:
            requestTimeout: 23s
            streamIdleTimeout: 25s
            maxStreamDuration: 26s
      from:
      - targetRef:
          kind: Mesh
        default:
          connectionTimeout: 10s
          idleTimeout: 2h
          http:
            requestTimeout: 0s
            streamIdleTimeout: 2h' | kubectl apply -f-
    ```

2. Check the list of changes for `redis_kuma-demo_svc_6379` pod in Envoy configuration using `kumactl`, `jq` and `jd`:

    ```yaml

>     kumactl inspect dataplane redis-8fcbfc795-twlst.kuma-demo --type=config --shadow --include=diff | jq '.diff' | jd -t patch2jd

Reviewer: again we can separate output

    + "0s"
    ```

    Review the list and ensure the new MeshTimeout policy won't change the important settings.
    The key differences between old and new timeout policies:

    * Previously, there was no way to specify `requestHeadersTimeout`, `maxConnectionDuration` and `maxStreamDuration` (on inbound).
    These timeouts were unset. With the new MeshTimeout policy we explicitly set them to `0s` by default. 
    * `idleTimeout` was configured both on the cluster and listener. MeshTimeout configures it only on the cluster.
    * `route/idleTimeout` is duplicated value of `streamIdleTimeout` but per-route. Previously we've set it only per-listener.

    These 3 facts perfectly explain the list of changes we're observing.

3. Remove the `kuma.io/effect: shadow` label.
   Although the old Timeout and the new MeshTimeout currently coexist, the new policy completely overrides the old one.

4. Observe the demo app behaves as expected. If everything goes well, we can safely remove Timeout and conclude the transition.

### CircuitBreaker -> MeshCircuitBreaker

1. Create a replacement policy for `cb-global` CircutBreaker and apply it with `kuma.io/effect: shadow` label:

>     ```sh

Reviewer: another whitespace issue

                minimumHosts: 32
                standardDeviationFactor: "1.33"
              failurePercentage:
                requestVolume: 34
                minimumHosts: 35
                threshold: 36' | kubectl apply -f-
    ```

2. Check the list of changes for `redis_kuma-demo_svc_6379` pod in Envoy configuration using `kumactl`, `jq` and `jd`:

    ```sh
    kumactl inspect dataplane demo-app-b4f98898-zxrqj.kuma-demo --type=config --shadow --include=diff | jq '.diff' | jd -t patch2jd
    ```
   
    As we can see this time is empty. CircuitBreaker and MeshCircuitBreaker configures Envoy in the exact similar way.

3. Remove the `kuma.io/effect: shadow` label.
   Although the old CircuitBreaker and the new MeshCircuitBreaker currently coexist, the new policy completely overrides the old one.

4. Observe the demo app behaves as expected. If everything goes well, we can safely remove CircuitBreaker and conclude the transition.

### TrafficRoute -> MeshTCPRoute

It's safe to simply remove `route-all-default` TrafficRoute. 
Traffic is going to flow through the system even if there are no either TrafficRoutes or MeshTCPRoutes/MeshHTTPRoutes.

> Ensure that TrafficRoute is the last policy deleted when removing older policies. 

Reviewer: can we make this bold? or as some warn, to make sure people see it? This seems important

Author: added warning block

helm repo update
helm install --create-namespace --namespace {{site.mesh_namespace}} {{ site.mesh_helm_install_name }} {{ site.mesh_helm_repo }} --set "{{site.set_flag_values_prefix}}controlPlane.defaults.skipMeshCreation=true"
```

Make sure the list of meshes is empty:

```sh
kubectl get meshes
```
Expected output:
```
No resources found
```

## Setup demo with old policies

### Create `default` mesh

```sh
echo 'apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  # for the purpose of this guide we want to setup mesh with old policies first,
  # that is why we are skipping the default policies creation
  skipCreatingInitialPolicies: ["*"] ' | kubectl apply -f-
```

### Deploy demo application

1.  Deploy the application
    ```sh
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kumahq/kuma-counter-demo/master/demo.yaml
    kubectl wait -n kuma-demo --for=condition=ready pod --selector=app=demo-app --timeout=90s
    ```

2.  Port-forward the service to the namespace on port 5000:

    ```sh
    kubectl port-forward svc/demo-app -n kuma-demo 5000:5000
    ```

3.  In a browser, go to [127.0.0.1:5000](http://127.0.0.1:5000) and increment the counter.

> ### Enable Mutual TLS and Traffic Permissions

Author: I added mentioning of that at the beginning of `## Setup demo with old policies` section

```sh
echo 'apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  skipCreatingInitialPolicies: ["*"]
  mtls:
    enabledBackend: ca-1
    backends:
      - name: ca-1
        type: builtin' | kubectl apply -f-
```

```sh
echo 'apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: TrafficPermission
mesh: default
metadata:
  name: app-to-redis
spec:
  sources:
    - match:
        kuma.io/service: demo-app_kuma-demo_svc_5000
  destinations:
    - match:
        kuma.io/service: redis_kuma-demo_svc_6379' | kubectl apply -f -
```

### Deploy TrafficRoute

```sh
echo 'apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: TrafficRoute
mesh: default
metadata:
  name: route-all-default
spec:
  sources:
    - match:
        kuma.io/service: "*"
  destinations:
    - match:
        kuma.io/service: "*"
  conf:
    destination:
      kuma.io/service: "*"' | kubectl apply -f-
```

### Deploy Timeouts

```sh
echo 'apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: Timeout
mesh: default
metadata:

>   name: timeout-global

Author: TBH I like the fact you can easily trace back the timeout in the policy by its value. I can add a note saying that by no means we're considering these good timeout values, it's done purely for demonstration.

spec:
  sources:
    - match:
        kuma.io/service: "*"
  destinations:
    - match:
        kuma.io/service: "*"
  conf:
    connectTimeout: 21s
    tcp: 
      idleTimeout: 22s
    http:

>       idleTimeout: 22s

Author: Unfortunately, the new MeshTimeout policy has a single place for the `tcp.idleTimeout` and `http.idleTimeout`. I guess the assumption was that the idleTimeouts are likely to be similar regardless of the protocol. TBH I find the diff less confusing when showcasing with equal idleTimeouts.

      streamIdleTimeout: 25s
      maxStreamDuration: 26s' | kubectl apply -f-
```

### Deploy CircuitBreaker

```sh
echo 'apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: CircuitBreaker
mesh: default
metadata:
  name: cb-global
spec:
  sources:
  - match:
      kuma.io/service: "*"
  destinations:
  - match:
      kuma.io/service: "*"
  conf:
    interval: 21s
    baseEjectionTime: 22s
    maxEjectionPercent: 23
    splitExternalAndLocalErrors: false
    thresholds:
      maxConnections: 24
      maxPendingRequests: 25
      maxRequests: 26
      maxRetries: 27
    detectors:
      totalErrors: 
        consecutive: 28
      gatewayErrors: 
        consecutive: 29
      localErrors: 
        consecutive: 30
      standardDeviation:
        requestVolume: 31
        minimumHosts: 32
        factor: 1.33
      failure:
        requestVolume: 34
        minimumHosts: 35
        threshold: 36' | kubectl apply -f-
```

## Transition to the new policies

Each type of policy is migrated separately; for example, once we have completely finished with the Timeouts, 
we will proceed to the next policy type, CircuitBreakers.

The generalized migration process roughly consists of 4 steps:

> 1. Create and deploy the replacement policies in [shadow mode](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/applying-policies/#applying-policies-in-shadow-mode). 

Author: rephrased the first step
